the following content is provided under a Creative Commons license
your support will help MIT OpenCourseWare continue to offer
high-quality educational resources for free
to make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of them IT
courses
visit MIT OpenCourseWare at 0 CW
that MIT that EDU Horan
the
the in
in
the
are in
for in discussing the sampling theorem
we saw date for a ban limited signal which is sampled
at a frequency that that is at least twice the highest frequency
we can implement exact reconstruction
of the original signal by low-pass filtering
an impulse train whose areas are identical to the sample values
well essentially this low pass filtering
operation provides for us and interpolation
in between the sample values in other words the output to the low-pass filter
in fact
is a continuous curve which
fits between a sample values some continuous function
now I'm sure that many have you are familiar with other kinds of
interpolation that we could potentially provide
in between sample values and in fact in today's lecture
why I would like to do is first the ball
develop the interpretation
all the reconstruction as an interpolation process
and then also see how this
exact interpolation using a low-pass filter
relates to other kinds of interpolation
such as linear interpolation that you may already be familiar with
well to begin let's again review
what the overall system is for exact reconstruction
sampling and reconstruction and so let me remind you that
the overall system for sampling and D sampling a reconstruction is as i
indicate here
the sampling process consists love
multiplying by an impulse train and then the reconstruction process
corresponds the processing that impulse train with
a low-pass filter so if the
spectrum of the original signal
is what I indicate in this diagram
then after sampling with an impulse train
that spectrum is replicated and
this replicated spectrum for reconstruction
is then processed through a low-pass filter
and so in fact if this frequency response
is an idea low-pass filter as i indicated on the diagram below
then multiplying the
spectrum of the sample signal by this extracts 4s
just the portion all
the spectrum centered around the origin
and what we're left with then is the
spectrum finally of the reconstructed signal
which for the case of an idea low-pass filter
is exactly equal to the spectrum of the original signal
now that is the
frequency domain picture
all the sampling and reconstruction let's also look at
basically the same process but let's examine it now
in the time domain well in the time domain
what we have is are original signal
multiply it by an impulse train and
this then is the sampled
signal or the impulse train whose areas are equal to the sample values
and because it the fact that this is an impulse train
in fact we can take this term
inside the summation
and of course what counts about except Ian this expression
is just as bad use at the sampling instants
which are displaced in time by capital T and so
to what we can to quietly right is the
expression for the impulse train samples or
imposed strain of samples as i've indicated here
simply an imposed strain whose areas are the sample bad
now in the reconstruction we process
that impulse train with a low-pass filter that's the basic notion of the
reconstruction
and so in the time domain be reconstructed signal
is related to the imposed strain of samples
through a convolution with the filter impulse response
and carrying out this convolution since
this is just the train of pulses in effect what happens in this convolution
is dead this impulse response gets
reproduced at each of the locations 0
the impulses index a PFD with the appropriate area
and finally then in the time domain the reconstructed signal
is simply a linear combination
love shifted versions of the impulse response
with amplitudes Witcher the sample values
and so this expression in fact and is our basic
reconstruction expression in the time domain
well in terms of a diagram
we can think of the original waveform
as I've shown here and
the red arrows denote be
sampled waveform or the train
love impulses whose amplitude are
the sample values up the original
continuous-time signal and
then I've shown here it what might be a typical impulse response
particularly typical in the case where we're talking about reconstruction with
an ideal 0 pass filter
now what happens in the reconstruction
is that the convolution love these
impulses with this impulse response
means that in the reconstruction
we superimpose wanted these impulse responses whatever the filter IPO's
response happens to be
at each of these time instants and in doing that
then those are added up and that gives us the total reconstructed signal
of course for the case in which the filter is an ideal
low-pass filter then what we know is that in that case
the impulse response is on the form of a sync function
but generally we may want to consider other kinds of impulse responses and so
in fact
the interpolating impulse response
may have and will have is this discussion goes along some different
shapes
now what I'd like to do is illustrator demonstrate this process
love all affectively doing the interpolation
by replacing each of the impulses
by an appropriate interpolating impulse response and adding the stop
and I'd like to do this with a computer movie that we generated
and what you're seeing the computer movie is
essentially original way for which is a continuous curve
and then below that in the movie
is a train samples
and then below that will be the reconstructed signal and the
reconstruction
will be carried out by showing the location of the impulse response as it
moves along in the way form
and then the reconstructed kurt is simply the summation of those is that
impulse response moves along
so what you'll see then is an impulse response like this for the particular
case
love and idea low-pass filter for the reconstruction
an impulse response like this place
successively at the locations love
these impulses and that is the convolution process
and below that then will be the summation if these
and the summation up those will then be the reconstructed signal
so let's take a look at first of all that reconstruction
where the impulse response corresponds to the impulse response
have an idea low-pass filter shown here first
is the continuous-time signal which
we want to sample and then reconstruct using
fan limited interpolation or equivalently
idea low-pass filtering on the set of samples
so the first step then is the sample this continuous time signal
and we see here now the set of samples
and superimposed on the samples are the original continuous 5 signal
to focus on the fact that those are samples are the top curve
let's now remove the continuous-time
envelope with the samples and it's this set of samples that we then want to use
for the reconstruction
the reconstruction process interpreted as interpolation
consists of replacing each sample with a sin x over X function
and so let's first consider the sample
at equal 0 and here is the
interpolating sin x over X function Associated
with that sample now the more general
process then is to
place a sin x over expulsion at the time location of each sample and superimpose
those
let's begin that process at the left-hand and
the set of samples and in the bottom curve
will build up the reconstruction as those sin x over X functions
are added together so we begin with the left hand sample and we see their the
sin x over X function
on the bottom curve then is the first step in the reconstruction
we now have the sin x over X function associated with the second sample
let's add that in now we move on
to the third sample and that sin x over X function
is added in
continuing on the next
sample generates a sin x over X function
which is superimposed on the result that we've accumulated
so far and now let's just
speed up the process will move on to the fifth sample
add that in the sect sample add that in
and continue on through the set of samples and
keep in mind the fact that basically what we're doing explicitly here
is the convolution up the impulse train with a sin x over X function
and because the set of samples that we started with
where samples haven't exactly been limited function
what we are reconstructing exactly
is the original continuous-time signal
that we have on the top trace
okay so that then
kinda gives you the picture above doing
interpolation by replacing the impulses by a continuous curve and that's the way
we're fitting
a continuous curve to the original
impulse train and let me stress
that this reconstruction process
by putting the impulses through
a filter the reconstruction process
follows this relationship whether or not
this impulse response in fact corresponds to an ideal ok pass filter
what this expression always says is dead reconstructing this way
corresponds to replacing the impulses
by a shift in impulse response with an effort to
dead is an amplitude corresponding to the sample value now
be kinda reconstruction dead we've just talked about and the ideal
reconstruction
is often referred to as band limited
interpolation because for interpolating in between the samples
by making the assumption that the signals ban limited
and using the impulse response for an idea low-pass filter
which has a cutoff frequency consistent with
the soon band with for the signal so if we look
here for example at the impulse train
then in the demonstration that you just saw
we built up the reconstructed curve by replacing each of these impulses
with the sync function and the some of those
built up the reconstruct the curve well
there are lots of other kinds of interpolation
dead are perhaps maybe not as exact
by often easier to implement and what I'd like to do is focus our attention on
to appease
one of these the first that I want to mention is what's referred to as a
zero-order hold
where in effect we do the interpolation in between these
sample values by simply holding the sample value
until the next sampling instant and the reconstruction
that we end up with in that that case will look something like this:
it's a staircase or boxcar kinda function
where we've simply held the sample value
until the next sampling instant and then replaced by that value held until the
next sampling instant et cetera
now that's one kinda interpolation
another kinda very common interpolation is
what's referred to as linear interpolation we simply fit
a straight line between the sample values and in that case
the cut be type reconstruction that we would get
would look something like I indicate here where we take a sample value
and the following sample value and simply fit interpolated curve between
them
which is a straight line now
interestingly in fact both the zero-order hold
and the linear interpolation which is
often referred to as a first-order hold can also
be either implemented or interpreted both implemented interpreted
in the context of the equation that we just develop
in particular the processing I'll the
imposed strain of samples by
a linear time-invariant filter specifically
if we consider a
system where the impulse response
is a rectangular function
then in fact if
we processed the train if samples
through a filter with this impulse response exactly
the reconstruction that we would get is what I've shown here
alternatively if we chose an impulse response
which was a triangular
impulse response then
what in effect happens is that each of these impulses
activates this triangle
and when we add up those triangles at successive locations in fact
what we generate is this linear interpolation
so what this says in fact is dead
either a zero-order hold
which holds the value or linear interpolation
can likewise be interpreted as a process
love convolved thing the impulse trainer samples
with inappropriate filter impulse response
well what I'd like to do is demonstrate
as we did with the ban limit interpolation or
these sink interpolation is sometimes called interplay with a sin x over axe
let me now show the process first the ball
where we have a zero-order hold
as corresponding to this impulse response
in which case we'll see basically the same process as we saw your
in the computer-generated movie previously
but now rather than a sync function replacing
each of these impulses will have a rectangular function
that will generate then are approximation which is a zero-order hold
and following that will do exactly the same thing with the same way form
using a first-order hold or a triangular impulse response
in which case well we'll see again is that as the triangle moves along here
and we build up the running some or the convolution
then will in fact fit the original curve
with a linear curve soul now let's
again look at that remembering that at the top will see
the original continuous curve exactly the one that we had before
below it the set of samples together with
the impulse response moving along and then finally below that
the accumulation of those impulse responses work with only
the convolution or equivalent Lee the reconstruction
so we have the same continuous-time signal that we use previously with
ban limited interpolation and in this case
now we want to sample and then interpolate first for the zero-order
hold
and then with the first-order whole so the first step then
is the sample the continuous-time signal
and we show here at the set of samples once again
superimposed on which we have the continuous-time signal
which of course is exactly the same curve as
we have in the top well let's
remove that envelope so that we focus attention
on the samples that were using to interpolate
any interpolation process consists love replacing each sample
by a rectangular signal
whose amplitude is equal to the sample size
so let's put one first of all at equal 0 Associated
with that sample
and that then would be the interpolating rectangle associated with the sample at
equal 0
now to build up the interpolation what will have is one of those that each
sample time and those are
added together will start that process as we did before
at the left hand and that the set of samples
and build the interpolating signal on the bottom so
with the left hand sample we have first
the rectangle associated with that that shown
now on the bottom curve we now
have a senator plating rectangle with the second
sample that gets headed into the bottom curve
similarly and interpolating rectangle for the zero-order hold
with the third sample we had bad in to the bottom curve
and as we proceed we're building a staircase approximation
on to the next sample that gets added in
as we see the air and now lets speed up the process
and we'll see the staircase approximation
building up and notice in this case
as in the previous case that what we're basically watching dynamically
is the convolution love the imposed strain of samples
with the impulse response the interpolating filter
which in this particular case is just a rectangular Paul's
and so this staircase approximation that we're generating
is the zero-order hold interpolation
between the samples I love the
ban limited signal which is at the top
now let's do the same thing with the first-order whole so in this case
we want to interpolate using a triangular impulse response
rather than the sin x over X or rectangular impulse responses that we
showed previously
so first let's say with the sample it equals 0
we would replace that with a triangular
interpolating function and more generally
each in polls or sample is replaced with a triangular
interpolating function of the height equal to the sample height
and these are superposed to generate the linear interpolation
will begin this process with the leftmost
sample and will build the superposition
below and the bottom curve so here
is the interpolating triangle for the
leftmost sample and now it's reproduced below
with the second sample we have an interpolating triangle which is added
into the bottom
curve and now on to the third sample
and again that interpolating triangle will be added onto
the curve that we've developed so far
and now on to the next sample
we had that in there will speed up the process
and as we proceed through
we are building basically a linear interpolation
in between the sample points
a sexually corresponding to if one wants to think of it this way connecting the
dots
and what you're watching once again is essentially the convolution process
involving the impulse train with the impulse response
the interpolating filter and what we're generating then
is a linear approximation
to the fam limited continuous-time curve at the top
okay so what we have then is
several other kinds of interpolation which
fit within the same context as
exact ban limit interpolation one being
interpolation in the time domain with an impulse response which is a rectangle
the second being interpolation in the time domain
with an impulse response which is a triangle
and in fact its interesting to also
look at the relationship between at and ban limit interpolation
look at it specifically in the frequency domain
well in the frequency-domain
what we know of course is dead for exact interpolation
what we want as our interpolating filter is an ideal Lopez filter
now keep in mind by the way that an idea low-pass filter is an abstraction is a
stress several times in the past an idea low-pass filter
is a9 causal filter and in fact infinite extent which is
one of the reasons why in any case we would you some approximation to it
but here what we have is the
exact interpolating filter
and that corresponds to an ideal 0 pass filter
if instead we carried out the interpolation
using the zero-order hold the zero-order hold has a
rectangular impulse response and that means in the frequency domain
its frequency response is of the form love
a sync function or sin x over iraq's
and so this in fact when we're doing the reconstruction
with a zero-order hold is The Associated frequency response
now notice that it does some approximate Lopez filtering but of course
it has significant it permits significant energy
outside the pass band at the filter
well instead the zero-order hold if we use the first-order hold corresponding
to the triangular impulse response
in that case then in the frequency domain The Associated
frequency response would be the forty a transformer the triangle
and the Fourier transform a triangle is a sin squared
X over X where'd kinda function
and so in that case what we would have
for the frequency response associated with the first-order hold
is a frequency response as I show here
and the fact dead that there's somewhat more attenuation
outside the pass band at the ideal filter
is what suggests in fact dead the first-order hold or linear interpolation
gives us a somewhat smoother approximation to the original
signal then the zero-order hold does
and so in fact just to compare these two
we can see that here is
the ideal filter here is
the zero-order hold corresponding to
generating a boxcar kinda reconstruction
and here is the first order hold corresponding to a linear interpolation
now in fact in many sampling systems
in any sampling system really we need to use some approximation
to the low-pass filter and very often in fact
what is done in many sampling systems is the first to use
just a zero-order hold and then follow the zero-order hold
with some additional 0 pass filtering
well to illustrate some with these ideas
and the notion love doing reconstruction
with a zero-order hold a first-order hold and then in fact
are ending to that some additional 0 pass filtering
what I'd like to do is is demonstrator illustrate
sampling and interpolation in the context love some images
image of course is a two-dimensional signal the
the independent variables are spatial variables not time variables
and of course we can sample in both or the spatial dimensions both in X&Y
and were chosen as so
a possibly appropriate choice for
an image is again our friend and colleague JBJ 48
so let's begin with the original image which we then
want to sample and reconstruct and a sampling is done by
effectively multiplying by appalls both horizontally and vertically
the sample picture is then the next one
that I show and as you can see this corresponds in effect
to extracting small brightness elements I did the original image in fact
let's look in a little closer and what you can see essentially is that
well we have of course tonight impulses spatially but
small spatial pillars dead
implement the sampling for us okay now
going back to the original sample picture
we know that a picture can be reconstructed by low-pass filtering from
the samples and in fact
we can do that optically in this case by simply d focusing the camera
and when we do that what happens is that we smear out the picture
or affectively convolved the impulses with the point spread function of the
optical system
an this then is not too bad a reconstruction
so thats a an approximate reconstruction and focusing back now
what we have again is the sample picture
now these images are in fact a can often of
a computer display and a common procedure in
computer-generated are displayed image is is in fact
the use of a zero-order hold and if the sampling rate is high enough
then that actually works reasonably well so now
let's look at the result of applying a zero-order hold
to the sampled image that I
just showed
the zero-order hold corresponds to replacing the impulses by
rectangles and you can see that what that generates
is a mosaic affect as you would
expect and in fact let's going a little closer and
emphasize the mosaic affect you can see that essentially where they were
impulses previously
there are now rectangles with those brightness values
a very common procedure with computer-generated images is the first
20 order holders we've done here
and then follow that with some additional ok pass filtering and in fact
we can do that low pass filtering now again by D focusing the camera
and you can't begin to see
dead with the zero-order all plus the low-pass filtering the reconstruction is
not that bad
well let's go back to the full
image with the zero-order hold
and again now the effective low pass filter I will be
somewhat better and let's tee focus again year
and you can begin to see that this is
a reasonable reconstruction with the mosaic
in fact with this back in focus you can
apply your own low-pass filtering to it either by squinting
or if you have the right or wrong kind of my classes either taking them off for
putting them on
now in addition to the zero-order hold weekend of course apply a first-order
hold and that would
correspond to replacing the impulses instead of with rectangles as we have
here
replacing them with triangles an
so now let's take a look at the result all a first-order hold applied to the
original samples
and you can see now that the reconstruction is somewhat smoother
because the fact that we're using an impulse response
that somewhat smoother or a corresponding frequency response that
has a sharper cut off
i emphasize again that this is a somewhat low pass filtered version of
the original because
we have under sampled some what spatially
to bring out the point that I want to illustrate
okay to emphasize these effects
even more what I'd like to do is go through
basically the same sequence again but in this case what we'll do
is double the sample spacing both horizontal horizontally and vertically
this of course means there will be even more highly under sampled been
in the ones that I preview show previously showed and so the result of
the reconstructions with some low pass filtering
will be a much more low-pass filtered image
so we now have the sample picture but I've now under sampled considerably
more and you can see the effect of the sampling
and if we now apply is zero-order hold
to this picture we will again get a mosaic and lets
look at that and that mosaic of course looks
even block here than the original and again emphasizes the fact that the
zero-order hold
simply corresponds to filling in squares or replacing the impulses
by squares with the corresponding brightness
values finally if we instead of a zero-order hold
use a first-order hold corresponding to two-dimensional triangles in places
in place at these original blocks what we get is
the next image and that again is a smoother reconstruction consistent with
the fact that the triangles are smoother than the rectangles
again i emphasize that this looks so highly low-pass filtered
because of the fact that we've under sampled so severely
to essentially emphasize the effect
as I mentioned the images that we
just looked at were taken from a computer although
because the original images were continuous-time
images or more specifically continuous space that is the independent variable
is a spatial variable
now computer processing
love signals pictures speech or whatever the signals are
is very important and useful because
it offers a lot of flexibility and in fact the kinds of things that I showed
these pictures
would have been very hard to do without
in fact doing computer processing
well in computer processing %uh any kind of signal
basically what's required is dead
we do the processing in the context of discrete-time signals and discrete-time
processing
because it the fact dead a computer is run off the clock
and essentially things happen in the computer
in a as a sequence of numbers and as a sequence of events
well it turns out dead the sampling theorem in fact as i've indicated
previously
provides us with a very nice mechanism
for converting are continuous-time signals
into discrete-time signals for example for computer processing
or in fact if it's not a computer for some other kind of discrete-time or
perhaps digital processing
well the basic idea as i've indicated previously
is to carry out discreet I processing
of continuous-time signals by
first converting the continuous-time signal
to a discrete-time signal carry out
the appropriate discrete-time processing
love the discrete-time signal and then after we're done with that process
saying
converting from the discrete-time sequence
back to a continuous-time signal
corresponding to the output that we have here
well in the remainder this lecture what I'd like to analyze
is the first step in that process namely the conversion
from a continuous-time signal to a discrete-time signal
and understand how the
to relate both in the time domain in the frequency domain
and in the next lecture will be analyzing and demonstrating
the overall system including some intermediate processing
so be first step in the process
is the conversion from a continuous-time signal
to a discrete-time signal and that can be thought of as a process that involves
two steps although in practical terms it may not be implemented specifically
as these two steps the two steps are
to first convert from the continuous-time
for continuous-time continuous signal
to an impulse train through a sampling process
and then to convert
that impulse train to a discrete-time sequence
and the discrete-time sequence exit then
is simply then a sequence a bad news
which are the samples all the continuous-time signal
and as we'll see as we walk through this basically this step
going from the impulse train to the sequence
corresponds principally to worry labeling staff where
we pic of the impulse bad news
and use those as the sequence values
up for the discrete-time signal so
what I'd like to do as a first step in understanding this process
is to analyze it in particular with our attention focused on trying to
understand
what the relationship is in the frequency domain
between the discrete-time Fourier transform
love the sequence discrete-time signal
and the continuous-time 48 transform
love the original on sampled and then
the sampled signal so let's go through that
and in particular
what we have is a process where the continuous-time signal
is of course modulator multiplied
by an impulse train and that gives us then
another continuous-time signal we're still in the continuous time domain
it gives us another continuous-time signal which is an impulse train
and in fact we've gone through this analysis
previously and what we have is
this multiplication or taking this term inside
the summation and recognizing that the impulse train
is is simply an impulse train
with areas above the impulses which
are the samples above the continuous-time function
we can then carry out the analysis in the frequency domain
now in the time domain we have a multiplication process so in the
frequency domain
we have a convolution above the Fourier transform
love the continuous-time signal the original signal
and the Fourier transform of the impulse train which is itself an impulse train
so in the frequency domain then the 48 transform
of the sampled signal which is an impulse train
is the convolution %uh the Fourier transform up the sampling
function PFT and the Fourier transform of the sampled signal
since the sampling signal is a periodic imposed strain
its Fourier transform is an impulse train
and consequently carrying out this convolution
in effect says that this for EA transform
simply gets replicated at each of the locations of these impulses
and finally what we end up with an
is a 48 transform after
the sampling process which is
the original for EA transform love the continuous
signal but and it to itself
shifted by integer multiples
above the sampling frequency and so this is the basic equation then
that tells us in the frequency domain what happens
through the first part all this two-step process
now I emphasize that is a two-step process the first process
is sampling where we're still essentially
in the continuous-time world the next step
is essentially a relabeling process
where we convert that impulse train simply to a sequence
so let's look at the next step
the next step is to take the impulse train and converted
through a process to sequence
and the sequence values are simply then
samples 0 the original continuous signal
and so now we
can analyze this and what we want to relate
is the discrete-time Fourier transform
love this and the continuous 540 a transformer
this or in fact that continues type for a transformer affects up to you
safety okay
well we have the imposed strain
and its Fourier transform we can
get by simply evaluating for EA transform
and since the Fourier transform love this
since this corresponds to an impulse train the 48 transformed by the time we
change them something in it rolls
will then have this in paul's replace
524 e a transformer the shift in polls
which is this exponential factor so this expression
is before a transformer the impulse train
the continuous time Fourier transform and alternatively
we can look at the Fourier transform all
the sequence and this of course is
a discrete-time Fourier transform
so we have the continuous time Fourier transform the imposed strain
we have the discrete-time Fourier transform the sequence
and now we want to look at how those to relate
well it pretty much falls out of just comparing these two summations
in particular this term and this term
are identical that's just the relabeling
Nov all what the sequence values are
and notice that when we compare these exponential factors
they're identical as long as we associate capital Omega
with little or may get times capital T in other words
if we were to replace here capital may go by a little Omega
times capital T and replace exhibition
by excessive see a venti in this expression
would be identical to this expression
so in fact these two are equal
where a relabeling or with the transformation between small Megan
capital make
and so in fact then the relationship that we have
is that the discrete-time Fourier transform are
the sequence of samples
is equal to the continuous time Fourier transform
all the impulse strain of samples
where we associate the continuous-time frequency variable
and the discrete-time pic script frequency variable through
a frequency scaling as i indicate here or said another way
the discrete-time spectrum is the continuous I spectrum of the samples
with capital mate with small Omega replaced by capital Omega
divided by capital T
fight so we have then this two-step process
the first step is taking the continuous-time signal
sampling with it sampling it with an impulse train
in the frequency domain that corresponds to
replicating the four EA transform
all the original continuous-time signals
the second step is relabeling Matt
in effect turning it into a sequence and what that does in the frequency domain
is provide us
with a rescaling if the frequency axis or as we'll see
a frequency normalization which is associated with the corresponding time
normalization
in the time domain well let's look at
those statements a little more specifically
when I show here it is the original continuous-time signal
and then below it is
the sampled signal and these two
are signals in the continuous-time domain
now what is the conversion from this impulse train
to a sequence well it simply taking
these in polls areas are bad news the sample values
and relabeling them in effect is a show below
relabeling them as sequence values
and essentially I'm now replacing
the impulse by the designation of a sequence value
that's one step but the other important step to focus on
is dead whereas in the impulse trainees impulses are spaced
by integer multiples of the sampling period capital T
in the sequence of course because if the way that we
label sequences these are always space by
simply integer multiples of 1
so in effect you could say that the step in going from here
to hear corresponds to normalizing out in the time domain
the sampling period capital T
to stress that another way if the sampling period were doubled
so there'd in this picture this spacing stretched out by a factor of two
nevertheless in the discrete-time
for the discrete-time signal the spacing would remain as one
and essentially its the
envelope of those sequence values
that would then get contracts compressed in time
so you can think all the step in going from the impulse train to the samples
as a sexually a time normalization
now let's look at this in the frequency domain in the frequency domain
what we have is the Fourier transform of our original continuous
signal after sampling with an impulse train
this spectrum retains its shape
him but is replicated at integer multiples of the sampling frequency to
pry over capital T
as i indicated here now
we know that a discrete-time spectrum
must be periodic and frequency with a period of two pi
here we have the periodicity but it's not periodic with period have to pry
its periodic with period which is equal to the sampling frequency
however in converting from the samples
to the sequence values and we go through another step
what the other step the other step is a time normalization
where we take the impulses which your space by the sampling period
and we rescale at essentially in the time domain
to a space in which is unity so we're dividing out
in the time domain by a
by a factor which is
equal to the sampling period well
dividing out in the time domain by
capital T would correspond to
multiplying in the frequency domain the frequency axis by capital T and indeed
what happens is dead in going from the imposed strain
to the sequence values we now rescale
this axis so that in fact
the axis gets stretched by capital T
and the frequency which corresponded to 2pi over capital T
now gets re normalized 22 part
so just looking at this again and perhaps with the overall picture
in the time domain we've gone from a continuous curve
two samples relabel those and in effect implemented a time normalization
correspondingly in the frequency domain we
have replicated the spectrum through the initial sampling process
and then rescale the frequency axis
so that in fact now this periodicity
corresponds to a periodicity here which is to Popeye
and here which is the sampling frequency
so very often in fact and will be doing this next time
very often when you think
love continuous-time signals which have been converted to discrete-time signals
when you look at the discrete-time frequency axis
the frequency to pie is Associated
with the sampling frequency
as it will it was applied to the original continuous-time signals
now as i indicated what will want to go on to from here
is understanding I'll
what happens when we take a continuous-time signal
converted to a discrete-time signal as I just going through
do some discreet I processing with the linear time-invariant system
and then carry that back into the continuous-time world
that is a procedure that will go through and
analyze and in fact illustrate in some detail
next time in preparation for that
what I would be eager to encourage you to do
using the study guide and in reviewing this lecture
is to begin the next lecture
with a careful and thorough understanding love
the arguments that I just going through in particular
understanding the process that's involved in going from a continuous-time
signal
through sampling to a discrete-time signal
and what that means in the frequency domain interns to taking the original
spectrum
replicating it because if the sampling process
and then sry scaling that so that
the periodicity gets rescaled so that its periodic
with a period of two part so will continue with that next time focusing
now
on the subsequent steps
in the process thank you